let's try writing a more interesting
subclass of the S list this one's gonna
be called vengeful s list now normally
when you call remove last on an s list
best list it's kind of stoic it doesn't
care about its items it throws them away
never thinks about them again but the
vengeful s list never forgets so imagine
you add the numbers 1 5 10 and 13 then
remove last twice so that will delete 13
and 10 later you can go to the vengeful
s list and ask well who got deleted
print please print for me your lost
items and it should print 10 and 13 so
let's try implementing that now this is
not a practically useful thing just kind
of fun
so our vengeful s list I've already set
it up so that it extends s list this is
adding some items this is deleting them
and then asking for print so what we're
missing of course is our print lost
items function so let's write one now
so print lost items is here and in this
case we are not going to put override
right like a try but it yells at us and
it says though that's not an SL s thing
this is new okay so what would printing
lost items do well somehow we have to
know about the lost items and so
thinking about it you can kind of ponder
this is a fun exercise by the way if you
want to try it out on your own
there's always code in the github
repository the lecture code repository
but what I imagine might work is let's
just keep a list of deleted items I
don't know where it's gonna come from
and then in print lost items will just
say deleted items not print this is a
list we can use to store things we could
print them out this way okay I guess
we'll add a comment here prints deleted
items you know kind of obvious but as
well okay so now what do we do well we
want to somehow keep track of the
deleted items and we know that happens
we remove last so how could we change
this well I mean it doesn't make sense
to do like if you know or you don't want
to try and do something like vs1
deleted items dot add or whatever
because we want this to happen
automatically we want the vengeful s
list to remember it without changing the
main method so what we can do is change
how remove last works so in this case
you can override
remove last public void remove last
actually should be item and in this case
we will do the normal removal stuff but
we'll make sure to do delete items dot
add last at some point in this so let's
go look at the s list class and we see
here remove last so we can't just maybe
copy and paste everything here put it in
oops we'll just see what happens we'll
do just paste it first and we see
there's a bit of an issue Sentinel has
private access size has private access
get last note private access the issue
here it seems is that s lists they've
declared their sentinel and size methods
our site members to be private and
private in java means so private and
then not even your subclasses can access
it so even though eventual s list is an
s list and it does have a size field it
cannot access it from a vengeful s list
method so that's actually not going to
work at all instead we're gonna use
something that we haven't seen yet which
is the super keyword in this case we can
do super dot remove last and that means
called the super classes remove last
method and in this case what is eventual
s list it is an S list so that will go
up to the s list class and call the
appropriate method so we'll get that
last item we'll add it to this list and
then we'll return it okay now at this
point maybe my code will work let's try
running it okay so in this case we get
exception and thread and so we click
here and we see that the issue is on
this line it seems that deleted items is
null and we could use the debugger I
won't for time reasons but you can
imagine here that deleted items it was
never initialized so it is null and so
one way to fix this is to create a
constructor and the constructor will
just simply create an S list of items so
deleted items equals new s list item and
now I think things should work that's
dry
okay indeed now we get the printed
output that we expect 13 and 10 were
those that were lost now it's actually
possible I should mention here since I
don't think I have elsewhere in the
class so far that you can actually not
have a constructor here and instead set
it up at the time that the variable is
declared and that has the same exact
effect as having the constructor that
does the same thing this is probably a
little bit more common but I'm going to
leave it as a constructor for now just
for the sake of the point I'm going to
make in the next little segment so to
summarize what we did here we have a
class vengeful s list that is an S list
has a deleted items a list there
remember lots deleted items when you
create one you set aside an actual list
to store those deleted items and the
special part is we override the remove
last method where we will call the super
classes method using this new super
keyword and then of course we'll add the
item and return that's it that's our
vengeful s list